12, 1980, and Tommy Suarez of 5010 Oak Shadows is
here, and he's listening to everything that's
been said. Have you in any way been coerced into
saying anything, or are you saying this
completely on your own? It's my own free will, and
it's my firm belief, and have been since the day of
the assassination in 1963. Okay. We can keep
going. You
were telling me yesterday that, and I can't
remember because when I went back to the house, I
wrote some notes down, but I couldn't remember
all. There was something that you had said that had
been deleted from the Warren Commission and all
the other investigations.
The bulk of that investigation has been sealed.
And
I believe a period of time was set at 80 years before
it would ever be opened and displayed to the
public. And
if you can believe what you see on television and
read in the news, hear on radio, certain
individuals who
believe there was more than one gunman involved,
and who have played back. We have recorded
portions of the incident, some of which were
supposed to have been recorded at Dallas Police
Headquarters and their dispatching mechanism
put on tape because of a mobile unit's microphone
on the motorcycle of one of the Dallas police
officers who was riding escort. There was, what
were shots fired and had been stipulated in the
various reports, and that some witnesses have
claimed that there was a
visual evidence to them of additional gunfire
from a knoll long near the book storage building. I
believe this knoll would have been a little bit
southwest of the... some of the... ...southwest
corner of the building, and would have been
northwest of the path of the automobile the
President and the Vice President were riding in. I
was watching this mother cave proceed through
Dallas on television, live, at the time of the
assassination occurred.
But through that media, I was not able to adhere to
anything that I could discuss. ary雨
However, in the transfer from the Dallas Police
Station to the Dallas County Jail, which was
attempted on Sunday morning, once again I was
watching that live on television, and I did hear
the report of firearms or a reasonable facsimile
thereof at the incident that Jack Rudy
surged towards Lee Harvey Oswald, and Oswald
folded over and grasped his midriff, and then
reportedly died,
practically in the arms of a police captain. And I
did distinctly hear that police captain say,
Jack, you son of a bitch, to Jack Rudy. Is it common
procedure for, for, when they're escorting
somebody, for, for a policeman not to be in front of
the person that they're escorting out? Proper
procedure for a police officer or anybody else to
escort a prisoner, party that has control of the
prisoner, walks behind the prisoner.
In this kind of situation that's transpired
there, there was numerous police officers of all
categories. All around, Lee Harvey
Oswald. Had it not been for the familiar sight of
Jack Rudy around the Dallas Police Station over
the period of a couple of three months prior to this
occurrence, Rudy would never have been able to
even gotten on the grounds.
Yeah, I see, I see that. But, and my question is, do
you consider it to have been proper procedure the
way that they were escorting him out? Nothing
wrong with the procedure that they were using to
escort him. Their belief was that everybody had
been okay to be there and screened, and were not any
threat to the life of the prisoner at all. He was
being properly escorted with the captain of the
police
on one side of him and the, some other police
official on the other side, a commissioned peace
officer. And they each had ahold of an arm. That
captain had a hold of Oswald's right arm and some
other individual had his left arm and they were
walking the captain just to his, barely to his
right rear, almost the rest of him and the other
officer in a similar position on the left side. It
wasn't a matter of not having sufficient numbers
of security operating in a firm belief that they
had screened everybody and that there was nobody
that would be any threat to the prisoner
present. I can't fault the, the Dallas Police
Department on this thing at all,
but insofar as their methods they were using to
transport him, that I would be somewhat tempted to
criticize the news media because
in the book that the chief police at that time, the
Dallas Police wrote on the subject, he was
somewhat coerced by the news media,
which can unseat just about any individual from
any public office that they decide to, including
any president in the United States. With such
action, if he didn't have this thing in the daytime
where the majority of people would be able to watch
it going on on television, live, at the burst of
between two and four o'clock a.m. when
practically everybody would be in bed asleep and
nobody much would be watching it live on
television. As a matter of fact, at that time, the
local television stations here didn't even
operate at that time of the morning. They shut
down. Some of them don't now. They leave the airs
around one o'clock, one thirty. I don't think any
of them stay all night and still have a shut-down
period of sometimes a week or two. I don't think any
of them do. Okay. Can you give me any information on
this General Walker that you spoke of earlier? He
was, after he had retired, he had become... He
retired from where? From the military army. He
retired, I believe, a major general and was very
active in the field politics and the Democrat
party. I don't even recall what his first name or
initials was. But
I refuse to concede the idea that Lee Harvey Oswald
was a spy for the Soviet Union because a spy for the
Soviet Union would not make a point to go and marry a
Russian woman and bring her to live in Dallas,
Texas. He was trying to be a spy, give her a complete
flop because she didn't have his cover blow before
he ever started. And a spy with no cover is no spy.
Yeah. I understand that. By what I understand,
that's what you're saying. under that close of
surveillance. I mean, he was in Dallas somewhere.
You could undoubtedly have found him. Would be a
problem. He was a good guy. He was a good guy. He was a
good guy. He was a good guy. He was a good guy. He was a
good guy. Well, they knew where he was. He was in
Dallas somewhere. And could undoubtedly have
found him. Would be a big problem. Seemed like to
find his wife, family, and all that after the thing
happened. They didn't? They did. Yeah. Okay. Not
only found them, but also found that, that, that he
was the breadwinner for a place to live for he and
his wife. And Dallas, and for Dallas. that he had
lived in. Living in Dallas. Fort Worth, mother in
Dallas or vice versa. He's keeping up both homes.
And while he was looking all this around to Mexico
City and back, he wasn't supposed to even have a
job, period. No end in time. Nobody knew that at
all. He was financing living some kind of way.
Of course, they claimed they checked this all out
and that he had sufficient funds coming in from
some source. I never did know where to have done
this all. And it has never been clear in my mind what
mode of transportation he used to get to Mexico
City. Nobody ever mentioned that. He drove down
there, walked, hitchhiked. How did he get there?
On a bus? He didn't go on a train, but he went across
the river and that Roma he had. He didn't have
anything for a train to go to Roma about. Nothing
there. He didn't need to transport on a train. He
didn't produce anything. It was a rocky area
around there, a little village there on the river.
No city on the opposite side of Mexico. It was the
window town or whatever it was then. The nearest
place after you got over there was San Pedro,
and it was about the same size as Umber was. It was
nothing to get to. It was pretty good size of a town
now, but it sure wasn't in 1963. Well, you... Yes.
When you said that you served in the service from
the years of, could you repeat that again? When I
was in the military? Right. From August the 7th,
1940 to July 28th, 1945. And what was your rank in
the military? Highest rank in the health, and I was
sergeant. I did attend the officer candidate
school and resigned out of it the day before I was to
be commissioned as a personnel
leader. Did you say that you know, or that, I don't
know, that relations or something like that in
Starr County? Did you know somebody who lived in
Starr County? I, while I was stationed there, the
only somebody that I ever knew there at that time,
the city marshal there, a fellow by the name of
Sanchez, 1941. I was real well known. I went with
him. I knew him. I talked to him a few times. I know a
lot of people there. I know that the information
has been that there was a great influx of, in recent
years, a great influx of illegal drugs of various
kinds, marijuana, I don't know what the hash is,
heroin, bag of tricks. It was coming through
there. Some people built some malls for pretty
homes. At least that's what they showed to be on the
television. I don't know. A place that didn't
produce anything. They were buying homes out
there anyway. I don't know where they were getting
their money from. Oil there. Great shakes for
grazing cattle. Probably that area right along
there where those homes were. Fifty acres might
support a
cattle. Maybe. Of course, you never had any hard
winter that would support them any time. They
weren't supposed to be around. But it takes so many
acres to do it. I doubt anybody had that many in that
area. There's a lot of very fine homes built all
along that road between them for several miles,
right up at the edge of Star County, towards
Mission, which would be east of Riverview City. I
showed these pictures and highway numbers and all
this stuff right there, along the north of the road
where the, what they called the Skeet Specials
railroad tracks ran south of the highway. These
houses seemed to be off. Actually, I wasn't on the
north side of the road with much of anything. And
certainly nothing but brush from there back to the
banks of the Rio Grande. Army
posts there, full green roads right on the banks of
the Rio Grande. Can you tell me, from the time that
you started, into your police career, as to where
all you have been, you have worked for, for what
police, for what police agencies you have worked
for? What police stations? Or, since you have
retired, since you got out of the military, have
you always been to the police force? Right. And can
you, can you tell me what the police force? I was
discharged on a Friday, July the 28th, 1945,
Monday morning. I went down and answered to an ad in
the local paper and applied for a job at the Houston
Police Department. And on the 13th day of August, I
was called to the station and sworn in as a police
officer and given an assignment to work the VJ day
for
a... And so you have always, so the police agency
that you have always worked with has been HPD. Have
you ever seen any material, any confidential
material that has dealt with, with any
Kennedy-related material? I don't recall...
Without divulging any, you know... Any written
material or anything pertaining to this
assassination? That is not, that's not public?
We had nothing in our files. I had access to any
files. We
had nothing to investigate, to make any files. As
far as I know... As far as I know, other than the
possibility that he may have passed through some
time, Leo, Leo McDonnell's father was ever in
Houston. I don't remember that. You said you...
John Kennedy was here during that same period. He
was here when they were campaigning for the
presidency. And then he was here during that time.
And then Johnson was here after he was president. I
went out to Hobby Airport on St. Clair National
Airport. And was part of the police security out
there. He and Lady Bird came down. He was Humphrey
and his wife came with them. You have told me that
LBJ was not in the same car with Kennedy or Conley.
And that was perfect. Kennedy and Conley was in the
same car. But as the motorcades went by on
television, there was the car they were in. And
then the
president lurched back like this in the seat. And
it seemed like John Conley lurched over this way at
the same time and came down. And
Jackie Kennedy crawled over the back seat and back
on the trunk of the open car. And it seemed big. And
it seemed to be trying to do something for the
president and the Secret Service. And running
along behind, at least one of them climbed up on the
trunk. Somebody
gave some kind of signal and took off. And they took
off. And there was the space between that car and
the one that Johnson and Lady Bird was in. It was at
least as far as from here across the street. Do you,
is it your assumption
that Conley, do you think that Conley and Kennedy
were riding together because Conley had more
prestige than Johnson? And that it would be more of
a good of an appearance for them to be riding
together? No, I think it was strictly a matter of
protocol. Chief Executive of the nation. He was a
guest of the chief executive of the state. The same
token that the lieutenant governor would have
been placed in a different car. Two of them had gone
to Washington to see the president. That's
something they drove around. The governor and his
wife was in the car with the president. His wife was
the vice president then. While
in the military, have you, did you receive any, any
kind of commemoration in the military?
Commendations?
Special, special work. Decorations or anything.
Right.
Not particularly just theater and combat. And
I did receive a certificate of appreciation, a
half-h arm of the lieutenant general of the United
States Air Force. And while you had been on the
Houston police force, did you ever receive any
commendation while you were on there? Did you
receive any kind of commendation from the Houston
police before a pardon? Nothing more than letters
of commendation. A bunch of them. Two or one of
them. Yesterday you said you had some
kind, a whole wall full of, There they are. Okay.
Okay. I want to interrupt. I'm going to interrupt
this for one moment. Let me, let me say this before
we shut this off. What I have stated here is my
opinion and is a result of my own
investigation as best as I could
go through with in this case. But it appears to me
that I have established a motive for each of the
individuals, I have named as probable
conspirators in this incident. The motive of
Lyndon Baines Johnson being, wanting
to be president of the United States. George Parr
trying to pay, repay Johnson for procuring
presidential pardons for some 20 years of his
life. Lee Harvey Oswald, trying to get the
opportunity of revenge against John Connolly and
Jack Ruby is strictly religiously motivated in
him. Okay. Everything that you have said right
now, we discussed yesterday, and I asked your
permission if you would be recorded. And nothing
that we have said, nothing that has been said
today, has been pre-planned out to say. And you
have held, you told me this yesterday that this has
been your opinion. And I have come up with to you to
no motive, asking with no knowledge of my own. And I
am just trying to find out, I just want to learn your
opinion. Is that correct? Right. And I have
expressed this same opinion for the same reasons
to lots of people over the years. I fully expect to
express it to some more. Okay. Nobody ever. Nobody
ever promised me anything. Okay. Tommy Suarez.
This is Tommy Suarez. And he has been sitting here
through the entire interview on both sides of the
tapes. And he has listened to both sides of the
tapes. And have we stopped? Have we stopped or have
we edited anything in any way? No. No. No, I am
saying, have we stopped or have we edited
anything? No. Okay. Okay. Right now I am going to
cut this off because I want to go see what he was
telling me about about what you have on your wall.
And we will resume the cinema. You are lying. I am
sorry. Everything that you said today, we have not
deleted anything out of this tape. And I have taken
pictures of the documents that I said I was going to
take pictures of and we are now concluding the
interview. Is there anything left that you would
like to say? Nothing
more than that I have formulated my opinion from
the evidence that I had at hand and through
application thereof to the rules of the criminal
investigation and have arrived at the conclusion
that the parties named herein as members of
conspiracy in the assassination of John Ford,
John Fitzgerald Kennedy, deceased
former President of the United States of America,
would be the most logical of any people and for the
reasons herein stipulated to have entered into a
conspiracy to have committed this offense. Okay.
It is 5.40 p.m. on March 12, 1980 and the interview
has been completed.
Today is March 13, 1980 and I am just making this a
follow-up note so that I don't forget on myself.
When I spoke with the man earlier, when I had spoken
with the man the day before and I had talked to him
earlier, he had said that Ruby had not enough
control to outvote or at least to cause the
redirect in certain policies or principles in the
Dallas police station. Special notes to check.
Why? Had Jack Ruby, whom was a strip joint
operator, been so close to the Dallas police
department? Also, on my initial interview, which
was not recorded, which was the day before this
original recording, I had been told that Johnson
had instructed the motorcade route to be changed
and that Mr. Excuse me for the interruption. But
that Mr. Evans had been devoted this information
by and that Kennedy was only notified at the very
last moment and was the only reason that he went
along with this because Johnson said that it,
Johnson had said or is reported to have
conveniently talked him into that this change
would be more politically profitable.
Special notes which I'd like to make, just special
notes, is Connelly's refusal to pardon Oswell,
that Sanchez, who was the sheriff of Starr County,
Coke Stevenson, Truman's pardon of par, Al Smith
in 28, and it has not been mentioned, but it had been
mentioned by Connelly that Kennedy's trip to
Texas was dangerous.
Also, other points to note is why would Johnson
accept the vice presidential nomination at the
time he was Speaker at the House when the Speaker of
the House is undisputedly considered to have more
authority or at least more of being in a position of
persuasion if not his motives have been for more
power. Another point that I'd like to remember to
investigate is did Ruby Clifton stop in between
Mexico and why have none of the reports dealt with
if he has or if he hasn't. Also note, General
Walker, I want to find out more about him. I was told
and I don't remember if this was on on tape that
there was an attempt on his life. A bullet hole went
through his window and nearly missed him. This is
publicly acknowledged can be found in most
periodicals. One other part that wasn't recorded
that I've seen in my notes that par is indebted to
LBJ for 10 years of his life or there was and in
reference to that, I suppose that the alleged
assassination conspiracy would have wiped out
the debt. Also, I cannot recollect correctly, but
there was some mention about Oswald's
gun having not been in
normal custody after his apprehension for a
couple of hours. These couple of hours are lagging
time which is a point that needs to be
investigated. Nearly
all the information on this tape is of course
public knowledge and is the experience of one man
who I consider to be of extremely high
intelligence. The
fact that he is presented he is presented well and
he has at all times adhered to his police mentality
and police and prejudice of using alleged and
possible and probable and that certain things are
not common procedure. Conclusion. Mr. John B.
Evans has granted me the right to use any and every
part of this interview for my research. I realize
that this interview does not bring to light any new
evidence but it does express some motives and
circumstances that in my opinion deserve to be
researched.